so here we have a slightly more complex
program this program declares a vector
of strings called brothers and this is
my brother's David Ethan and Adam and
then we iterate over this vector and
output the name of each of the brothers
and if we if we run this let me make
sure I'm in the right directory G plus
plus hello dot cpp dot slash it out okay
so we say hello to David Ethan and Adam
what I would like to do now is try and
debug this program just inspect what's
going on on each line so you might think
I could come up here and and start
debugging but in fact Visual Studio code
is only set up out of the box to debug
node J ass which is not helpful for us
as C++ developers so I'm going to come
to the extensions directory and search
for C++ and I see the microsoft c++
extension which is what i want to
install so now i've installed that i'm
gonna come back to hello dot CPP and I'm
gonna try and debug again and now I'm
able to debug C++ and when I start
debugging I get nothing let's try coming
to the debug option here and select my
environment nothing happens
oh here in the bottom right corner I see
an error please first open a folder to
do advanced debug in debug configuration
so I'm gonna actually have to put hello
dot cpp in its own folder so let's open
a folder I'm gonna create a new folder
within my temp directory called hello
and then I'm going to click OK now I
have this blank folder called hello I'm
gonna move my hello dot CPP file which
was in the temp directory into this temp
ello directory so now I see I have hello
dot CPP all over again
let's try just compiling it and running
it here to make sure everything works
everything still works all right now
let's try the bugging it and let's say
we want to stop at this breakpoint
that's how we set a breakpoint is as we
we put this red dot here next to the
editor on the line that we want to stop
the debugger at and we're gonna say
start debugging and now I get this
option for all the different types of
debugging configurations and I'm going
to choose G plus plus build and debug
active file actually I'm going to come
over here and add a configuration here g
plus plus building debug active file so
let's say I want a debug key that out
let's let's create a launch
configuration let's delete this and now
it's debug let's see oh now we have to
load our symbols so it's not enough to
just compile the file and Bill they died
out we need to compile the file with the
debug symbols so we'll say hello dot
dash G and we will run on that and now
you see we stopped at standard C out
hello brother and we can look at the
status of the program we have these
strings that are my brother's the active
brother is David if we continue to the
next breakpoint we see the active
brother becomes Ethan and we can just
step through the code to Adam and now
we're done and that's an example of how
to debug a program